GNU Objective C Class Library
*****************************

The GNU Objective C Class Library, version 0.1.2, is now available.

What is the GNU Objective C Class Library?
==========================================

   It is a library of general-purpose, non-graphical Objective C objects
designed in the Smalltalk tradition.  It includes collection objects for
maintaining groups of objects and C types, streams for I/O to various
destinations, coders for formating objects and C types to streams, ports
for network packet transmission, distributed objects (remote object
messaging), pseudo-random number generators, and time handling
facilities.

Noteworthy changes since version `0.1.0'
========================================

   * New category: ObjectRetaining.  New classes: AutoreleasePool,
     AutoreleaseStack.

   * Bug fixes: Install next-includes properly.  New instructions in
     README.ULTRIX.  Time.m patched for Solaris 2.4.  test12.m free fix.

Noteworthy changes in version `0.1.0'
=====================================

   * Renamed the library from `libcoll' to `libobjects'.  (See the end
     of the file `DISCUSSION' for the background on this name choice.)
     Several file names changed to reflect this.  GNU class interfaces
     are now included with `objects' prefix, e.g. `#include
     <objects/BinaryTree.h>'.

   * Many new classes. Pseudo-random number classes Random, RNGBerkeley
     and RNGAdditiveCongruential.  New stream classes Stream,
     StdioStream and MemoryStream.  New coder classes Coder, TextCoder
     and BinaryCoder.  New network packet transmission classes Port and
     SocketPort.  New remote object messaging classes Connection, Proxy
     and ConnectedCoder.  New protocols Coding and Retaining.  New, but
     unimplemented: Lock and Locking.  New but soon-to-disapppear:
     RetainingNotifier, InvalidationListening.

   * Some bug fixes:  Fixed the assert typo in Storage.m.  The Time
     class now compiles under Solaris.  Fixed insertion bug in
     CircularArray.  NXStringTable_scan.l can now be compiled with lex,
     not just flex, (thanks to Adam Fedor <adam@bastille.rmnug.org>).
     Properly detect the difference between gcc running under NEXTSTEP
     and NeXT's cc.  Using autoconf version 2.0.  Renamed DelegateList
     to DelegatePool.  Renamed some collection hierarchy methods for
     better consistency.

   * Some directory reorganization so that NeXT-compatible files can be
     included in the standard way, e.g. #include <objc/List.h>.  Some
     other NeXT-compatibility improvements: Changed `GNU' prefix to `NX'
     in List and HashTable.  New files zone.[hc] containing dummy stubs
     for NeXT-compatible zone functions.

Where can you get it?  How can you compile it?
==============================================

   The libobjects-0.1.2.tar.gz distribution file has been placed on
`alpha.gnu.ai.mit.edu' in `pub/gnu'.

   The library requires gcc 2.6.1 or higher.  The library does not work
with the NEXTSTEP 3.2 compiler because that version of NeXT's cc cannot
handle nested functions.  Until a later release from NeXT, NEXTSTEP
users will have to install gcc.  See the `INSTALL' file for more
instructions about compiling and installing the library.

   The library has been successfully compiled and tested with the
following configurations:
       mips-sgi-irix5.2
       sparc-sun-sunos4.1.3
       m68k-next-nextstep3.0
       rs6000-ibm-aix3.2
       sparc-sun-solaris2.3

   Some previous snapshots of the library worked with these
configurations, but they haven't been tested recently:
       i386-unknown-linux
       i386-sun-solaris2.4
       i386-unknown-sysv4.0

   It is known not to work with:
       alpha-dec-osf

   The `.tar' file is compressed with GNU gzip.  Gzip can be obtained by
anonymous ftp at any of the GNU archive sites.

   For info about FTP via email, send email to `ftpmail@decwrl.dec.com'
with no subject line, and two-line body with line one `help' and line
two `quit'.

   The most recent (not necessarily tested) snapshots of the library
will be placed in `ftp://alpha.gnu.ai.mit.edu/gnu'.

     Happy Hacking!
            R. Andrew McCallum
            mccallum@gnu.ai.mit.edu



[ Most GNU software is packed using the GNU `gzip' compression program.
  Source code is available on most sites distributing GNU software.

  For information on how to order GNU software on tape, floppy or cd-rom, or
  printed GNU manuals, check the file etc/ORDERS in the GNU Emacs distribution
  or in GNUinfo/ORDERS on prep, or e-mail a request to: gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu

  By ordering your GNU software from the FSF, you help us continue to
  develop more free software.  Media revenues are our primary source of
  support.  Donations to FSF are deductible on US tax returns.

  The above software will soon be at these ftp sites as well.
  Please try them before prep.ai.mit.edu as prep is very busy!

  thanx -gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu

	ASIA: ftp.cs.titech.ac.jp, utsun.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp:/ftpsync/prep,
  cair.kaist.ac.kr:/pub/gnu, ftp.nectec.or.th:/pub/mirrors/gnu
	AUSTRALIA: archie.au:/gnu (archie.oz or archie.oz.au for ACSnet)
	AFRICA: ftp.sun.ac.za:/pub/gnu
	MIDDLE-EAST: ftp.technion.ac.il:/pub/unsupported/gnu
	EUROPE: irisa.irisa.fr:/pub/gnu, ftp.univ-lyon1.fr:pub/gnu,
  ftp.mcc.ac.uk, unix.hensa.ac.uk:/pub/uunet/systems/gnu,
  src.doc.ic.ac.uk:/gnu, ftp.ieunet.ie:pub/gnu, ftp.eunet.ch,
  nic.switch.ch:/mirror/gnu, ftp.informatik.rwth-aachen.de:/pub/gnu,
  ftp.informatik.tu-muenchen.de, ftp.win.tue.nl:/pub/gnu,
  ftp.funet.fi:/pub/gnu, ftp.denet.dk, ftp.stacken.kth.se, isy.liu.se,
  ftp.luth.se:/pub/unix/gnu, ftp.sunet.se:/pub/gnu, archive.eu.net
	SOUTH AMERICA: ftp.unicamp.br:/pub/gnu
	WESTERN CANADA: ftp.cs.ubc.ca:/mirror2/gnu
	USA: wuarchive.wustl.edu:/systems/gnu, labrea.stanford.edu,
  ftp.digex.net:/pub/gnu, ftp.kpc.com:/pub/mirror/gnu, f.ms.uky.edu:/pub3/gnu,
  jaguar.utah.edu:/gnustuff, ftp.hawaii.edu:/mirrors/gnu,
  vixen.cso.uiuc.edu:/gnu, mrcnext.cso.uiuc.edu:/pub/gnu,
  ftp.cs.columbia.edu:/archives/gnu/prep, col.hp.com:/mirrors/gnu,
  gatekeeper.dec.com:/pub/GNU, ftp.uu.net:/systems/gnu

]

